Introduction

Wings of Fire is the autobiography of former Indian presiden
t and eminent scientist Late APJ Kalam. The book is co-written by Arun Tiwari.
It also covers his early education leading up to his graduation in aeronautical engineering degree from the Madras Institute of Technology.

He hailed from a working-class Tamil Muslim family and the book is an interesting peek into the harmonious commingling of Hindus and Muslims of India celebrating the multi-ethnic, multi-religious and composite wealth India.

As a boy, he sold newspapers to help his brother and to overcome his own financial challenges while attaining his education. Through the text, the need and support of family and friends are eulogized and it certainly proved to be the cornerstone of his life’s successes.

Creation
The next part concentrated on his progress as a man of science and innovation. It revolves around his work with defence and space projects.

Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) became his first employers after completing his education as he was given a project on hovercrafts.

After nearly four years with DRDO, he joined the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) where he was mentored by some of the brightest Indian minds of Science like Professor Vikram Sarabhai, Dr Werner Van Braun, and Professor Satish Dhawan etc.

He would go on to be part of several important satellite launches during his stint with DRDO with the crowning jewel being the Project Director of SLV-III, India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle (1980).

A man of humble beginnings and simple life, he carried an unusual mix of spiritual convictions with man spirit of scientific enquiry. Born in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu (1931), young Muslim boy catapulted his fortunes to be called the ‘Missile Man’ of India.
Dr Kalam’s took the reins at Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) and the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and inspired generations through some of the most innovative, and breathtaking scientific feats of independent India.